Update readme (#41)
Quantco/spox: README.md

# Spox

[![CI](https://github.com/Quantco/spox/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Quantco/spox/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/spox/badge/?version=latest)](https://spox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

Spox makes it easy to construct [ONNX](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/) models through clean and idiomatic Python code.

## Why use Spox?

> Converting a trained model into ONNX entails replicating its inference logic with ONNX operators.
> In the past that constituted a major undertaking.
> Based on those experiences we designed Spox from the ground up to make the process of writing converters (and ONNX models in general) as easy as possible.

Reviewer: We're missing the actual _why_ right now, only stating that we make it easy.

```suggestion
A common application of ONNX is converting models from various frameworks. This requires replicating its runtime behaviour with ONNX operators.
In the past this has been a major challenge.
Based on our experience, we designed Spox from the ground up to make the process of writing converters (and ONNX models in general) as easy as possible. 

Spox's features include:

- Eager validation and type inference (as the graph is constructed)
- Errors with Python tracebacks to offending operators
- First-class support for subgraphs (control flow)
- A lean and predictable API
```

## Installation

> With pip:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spox releases are available on PyPI:
```

```bash
pip install spox
```

> Spox is also available on conda-forge and can be installed as expected:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is also a package available on conda-forge:
```
Also, technically this isn't quite there yet.

Author: Yes, coming up.

```bash
conda install spox
```

## Quick start

> Spox users interact most commonly with `Var` objects - **variables** which will have values assigned to them at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Spox, you primarily interact with `Var` objects - **variables** - which are placeholders for runtime values.
```

> The initial `Var` objects which represent the *argument*s of a model (the model inputs in ONNX nomenclature) are created with an explicit type and shape using the `spox.argument` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The initial `Var` objects, which represent the *arguments* of a model (the model inputs in ONNX nomenclature), are created with an explicit type using the `argument(Type) -> Var` function. The possible types include `Tensor`, `Sequence`, and `Optional`.
```

> All further `Var` objects are created by calling functions which take existing `Var` objects as inputs and produce new `Var` objects as outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All further `Var` objects are created by calling functions which take existing `Var` objects as inputs and produce new `Var` objects as outputs. Spox determines the `Var.type` for these eagerly to allow validation.
```

> Spox provides such functions for all operators in the standard grouped by domain and version inside the `spox.opset` module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spox provides such functions - _operator constructors_ - for all operators in the standard grouped by domain and version inside the `spox.opset` module.
```

Author: My thought here: It does not matter to the user what is happening inside the functions. Why introduce the term "operator constructor" at all?

Reviewer: Most documentation articles use that term, including the listings. I think it's just convenient to call these things somehow, as they have an important role.

Author: But from the user's point of view it makes no difference if you are dealing with your own functions or with a "constructor function" from spox. In any case, I don't think we need to introduce the name here in the readme.

> The final `onnx.ModelProto` object is build by specifying the explicit input and output `Var`s of the model to in the `spox.build` function.

Reviewer: A bit hard to parse right now.
```suggestion
The final `onnx.ModelProto` object is built by passing input and output `Var`s for the model to the `spox.build` function.
```

Below is an example for defining an ONNX graph which computes the [geometric mean](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geometric_mean) of two inputs.

> Please consult the [documentation](https://spox.readthedocs.io/en/latest) for more details and further tutorials on how to use Spox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to consult the Spox [documentation](https://spox.readthedocs.io/en/latest) to find more details and tutorials.
```

```python
import onnx

from spox import argument, build, Tensor, Var

> # import operators from the ai.onnx domain at version 17

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Import operators from the ai.onnx domain at version 17
```

from spox.opset.ai.onnx import v17 as op

def geometric_mean(x: Var, y: Var) -> Var:
    # use the standard Sqrt and Mul
    return op.sqrt(op.mul(x, y))

# Create typed model inputs. Each tensor is of rank 1

> # and has the runtime-defined length "N".

Reviewer: I wouldn't say it's _defined_ by a runtime.
```suggestion
# and has the runtime-determined length 'N'.
```

a = argument(Tensor(float, ('N',)))
b = argument(Tensor(float, ('N',)))

# Perform operations on `Var`s
c = geometric_mean(a, b)

# Build an `onnx.ModelProto` for the given inputs and outputs.

> model: onnx.ModelProto = build(inputs={'a': a, 'b': b}, outputs={'c': c})

Reviewer: I don't see why writing out the argument names is necessary? It already goes left-to-right, so inputs-then-outputs seems intuitive enough.
```suggestion
model: onnx.ModelProto = build({'a': a, 'b': b}, {'c': c})
```

Author: I think being a bit more explicit in the example does not hurt.

Reviewer: Fair enough

```

## Credits

> Original authors: [@jbachurski](https://github.com/jbachurski) with supervision from [@cbourjau](https://github.com/cbourjau).

Author: I am closing this as discussed on slack.

# Spox

[![CI](https://github.com/Quantco/spox/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Quantco/spox/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/spox/badge/?version=latest)](https://spox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

Spox makes it easy to construct [ONNX](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/) models through clean and idiomatic Python code.

## Why use Spox?

> A common application of ONNX is converting models from various frameworks. This requires replicating its runtime behaviour with ONNX operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common application of ONNX is converting models from various frameworks. This requires replicating their runtime behaviour with ONNX operators.
```
